In the previous video I have introduced Cross services and they have explained how to call them using
the command line in this video.
I'm going to take it step by step right.
A simple service in five.
So let's get started.
Let me first remind.
What is a service so service can be seen as a client server application where we have a server that
provides a certain service and the client will consume the service provided by the server.
So the operation of their service it starts when a server first wake up and does this mean for incoming
requests and then clients will send a service request to the server which will parse the incoming message
process the requested service and then return a response back to the client.
So here we have two entities a client and the server and also the message that will be exchanged between
the client and the server.
We have two type of messages.
One message for sending the request and another message or receiving the response it has to be noted
that there is a difference between the publisher's subscriber communication paradigm and also the client
server communication.
When using topics we have a publisher that will continuously some data to a subscriber.
So there is only one type of message which is the topic message and the subscriber does not send anything
back to the publisher.
However using services we had a server and the client.
So the client will send a request message which is the first step and then the second step the server
will send back a response message.
So here we have two type of messages and it is going to be observed when we go for implementation details
before diving deeper into the code lets look at the steps that you need to follow in order to create
a client server application in russets.
So first of all we need to define the service message.
We also call the service fight and the service message.
We define the type of the message for the service request and the type of the message of the service
response.
This is very important even before defining the server and the client because we need to define what
data will be sent in the request and what data will be sent back in response.
Then we will create a server node which is Proz program that is going to provide the service and will
be waiting for incoming requests to process them.
So the server will complement the processing logic and then we have the client which is an other note
or rest program that we request a service from the server by sending a request message and waiting for
a response message from the server.
And finally after creating the notes we can execute the service and then the client can continue the
service provided by the server.
We will also show how to analyze our services using command.
So now it's time to go for the code and start the implementation of our first service in.